I mean we have this thing in English
innocent until proven guilty what about
the guilty people mean an is Ian's
guilty don't get me wrong he slept with
the babysitter
he came out here and he promised
everyone he was never gonna sleep with
her and he insulted the audience and
said that you people have a dirty
imagination to imagine he was sleeping
with this girl just because she was
living with him as their live-in
babysitter and everyone was wrong and
evil and bad accept him and then what do
you know she turned 18 and he slept with
her I don't think he's innocent I think
he's guilty of that exactly as described
but guess what we all got to live in a
society together the innocent and the
guilty alike what is controversy
controversy is unearned attention so we
have people quitting the house of
parliament giving up their role in the
democratic process because of
controversy because it hurts them right
and you have people who are accelerating
their careers and becoming prominent
influential politicians through
controversy so controversy starts to
become a currency to be exploited and
maybe the darkest and most miserable
interpretation of what an Essene has
done in the latest chapter is that he
did this intentionally just for the
controversy but I mean look there's
there's got to be justice and dignity
and respect for all of us and even a
scumbag like anisia look guys
human rights aren't just for people you
personally like they are civil rights
aren't just for people you sympathize
with how is it is Ian supposed to live
what I look as bad as his conduct has
been what he actually did you know there
were allegations and insults being made
I guess that are grossly exaggerated and
wildly untrue and sometimes the figment
of people's imagination what about
justice and dignity and civil rights for
him so we've reached the point where
it's being asked is Twitter to mean is
Twitter to rough-and-tumble for our
elected representatives in democracy
we've also got to ask is Twitter to mean
as Twitter to our front temple for the
weakest among us for the strongest most
for the most notorious among us
even for innocent himself in this video
we're taking on the daring and difficult
challenge of dealing with to two topics
in one video
adjust the position if you will there's
a story in the mainstream press you may
or may not have heard about British
Parliament and about members of
parliament resigning because they
couldn't endure the controversy and the
word controversy has huben reinterpreted
as abuse and meanwhile in the demi-monde
that is youtube's anisia initia is the
man who has made his career out of
controversy and he is now jokingly
saying we all know it's a joke that he
is gonna quit YouTube forever because he
can't endure the controversy and or the
abuse all right
so you know there's a little bit of
parallelism stick with me here we get to
pass judgment on an Sen and we get to
have some slightly profound reflections
on the practical philosophy of democracy
in the 21st century so the first thing I
got to say about this this news story
that you may have heard you may not even
recognize it with this description this
story has been picked up and broadcast
on different TV stations radio shows and
newspapers with significant differences
in the slant or the interpretation
placed on it but at its most extreme the
story has been broadcast with the claim
that an improbably large number of
female members of parliament in England
all simultaneously resigned their
positions because they could not put up
with the level of abuse being directed
towards them on Twitter now if you do
just a little bit of reading what your
figure out is no it wasn't as if all
these women have so much in common
quite a few different members of
parliament resigned for different
reasons but in this cohort of women all
resigning the same time it did include
some examples that came close to that
headline-grabbing
version of the story
so for example Heidi Allen Heidi Allen
is a former Conservative member of
parliament who has said now that she is
not going to run for re-election at all
because she cannot stand quote the
nastiness and intimidation that has
become commonplace so some of the other
MPs also who resigned for other reasons
did include in their reflections that
they really don't appreciate the level
of abuse again let's just pause and
reflect here guys in the last 20 years
the word harassment completely lost its
meaning through overuse of the internet
right I mean it's even in YouTube policy
YouTube has a policy against harassment
what's the meaning of harassment when
you really look and do it on a technical
level it's become impossible to define
harassment and now I feel like just in
the last five years the word abuse used
to mean something tremendously serious
and now sort of step-by-step the word is
becoming more and more dilute in its
meaning to the point where mean comments
on Twitter are considered and
categorized as abuse all right
so Heidi Allen she was elected as a
Conservative member of parliament and
she is today a Liberal Democrat she
switched parties now even if you know
nothing about British politics you can
imagine that would get you a lot of hate
mail in any country around the world you
may not use the term conservative and
Liberal Democrat doesn't take much
imagination if you were supported
financially by the Conservative Party
that was the party you said you were
gonna represent and those people
supported you when they voted for you
and they came to your rallies and you
said that was the ideology you were
gonna represent in Parliament and then
you're elected and then you decide to
switch political parties and switch to a
political party that at least on the
level of adjectives is the diametric
opposite a liberal Democrat party you're
gonna get a lot of hate mail people are
really gonna feel a sense of betrayal
and hatred Wars you know the the whole
story of Heidi Allen is more complex and
convoluted than that in between being a
member of those two parties she actually
so she quit the Conservative Party to
stand as an independent and then she
teamed up with a number of independents
and created a new political party that
failed and then that new political party
rebranded itself it's really quite an
epic drama but this is this is as much
controversy as you could possibly have
as a Member of Parliament in the British
system this is as the highest level of
scrutiny and scorn you could possibly
bring on yourself if you like peace and
quiet maybe try dictatorship democracy
as a system as many redeeming qualities
social stability is not one of them you
know if you like people who are mozi and
cowed and afraid to state their opinions
about politics try living in a tyranny
try living in a dictatorship try living
under an absolute monarchy you'd be
amazed
many people who grow up in England or
America they don't know what it's like
to live in a country where people are
afraid to answer the question of what is
your opinion or you know what's going on
in politics where people really live
with that level of fear and democracy
were right now in Athens Greece I mean
coming back to the Penix here in Athens
and even even earlier this ancient
tradition in Greece what you see again
and again in the ancient texts that
criticize democracy because the ancient
texts don't celebrate it uncritically
they really do talk about everything
that's wrong with it this element of
democracy is complained about
politicians were ruthlessly ridiculed
and satirized in the comedies in the
theater in Athens and they didn't really
appreciate it
Socrates himself ruthlessly satirized
and criticized in the theater in comedy
and ultimately it got him killed
ultimately he was executed in part
because of the controversy that was
stirred up in the scorn the criticism
that was placed on Socrates in the
theater and then eventually he went to
court and what do you know you know the
average man didn't didn't sympathize
with his case didn't like his
his side of the story so the rough and
tumble of democracy I'm not saying all
things are forgivable or all things are
excusable but there are really some
important questions to ask here but what
did you expect what did you think the
job was when you were elected to be a
member of parliament I had an
interesting moment reflecting on this I
had a friend who went to Italy because
he had a girlfriend in Italy he was
enough he was a white Canadian and in
Italy
his girlfriend's brother was a major
union activist so labor union leader
when they met him he had two armed
security guards and wore a bulletproof
vest that was normal for him as a labor
union activist labor union leader he had
armed guards and more about professed
when he went out in public from place to
place this is Italy and I forget what
year this was this is 2001 or something
it's not that long ago right and you
know this was normal but you know this
is this is politics this is real
politics all right I mean I do think the
you know the question has to be asked
what was democracy what is democracy and
what ought democracy to be and I mean
this sincerely I think it applies to
people like an Sen as much as it applies
to an elected member of parliament like
Heidi Allen you guys may not know this
about me I know what it's like to have
really unreasonable rumors and
allegations made about your sex life on
the Internet and it's awful and it's
heartbreaking and discredit to you and
it makes you unemployable and you know
then you're trying to do fundraising for
a charity and nobody wants to have you
there or you know I go to a conference
on vegan activism and I know I know the
people who are whispering against me
were there at that conference and people
are afraid to stand next to you or
people are people feel intimidated to
look you in the eye
so on and so forth now look that's on
them you got it you got a meeting
vegan activists people say they're gonna
change the world come on homie you gotta
have a little bit more backbone than
this if you got a problem with me you
should have the courage to say it to my
face if you've heard a rumor about me
you should have the courage to talk to
me about it and resolve it you know lay
it to rest one way or the other you know
come on you can't stand up to me can't
talk to me and you want to stand up to
Tyson chicken corporation Nestle
corporation you want to stand up to you
know the cheese and dairy Lobby you want
to change the world you know come on
this is ridiculous
the level of just cowardice and
sincerity in the vegan movement is a
much bigger problem than the rumors
against me but I know so there was a
there was a young woman at the last
vegan conference I attended and I know
exactly what she says about me behind my
back as other people tell me sometimes
with a laugh and sometimes sometimes
with a concern but I know she goes
around tells me tells people about me
you know he says really problematic
things on his YouTube and that's all it
takes that's all it takes to to denounce
someone right now look I mean we have
this thing in English innocent until
proven guilty what about the guilty
people
and this seems guilty don't get me wrong
he slept with the babysitter he came out
here and he promised everyone he was
never gonna sleep with her and he
insulted the audience and said that you
people have a dirty imagination to
imagine he was sleeping with this girl
just because she was living with him as
their live-in babysitter
and everyone was wrong and evil and bad
accept him and then what do you know she
turned 18 and he slept with her I don't
think he's innocent I think he's guilty
of that exactly as described but guess
what we all got to live in a society
together the innocent and the guilty
alike you know and look it makes them
course we have stated tolerance for
people who are homosexual and trans
actors that I completely did it
completely dig the tolerance of light
across the bedroom but yeah that we also
have a question of well how much
tolerance do we have for the oldest sin
on earth guys if you read the Old
Testament there are there are cases of
us sleeping with and getting pregnant
the the the slave who takes care of the
children in the household service this
goes back this goes back centuries
because
ultimately men aren't just immoral and
selfish they're also lazy and the
easiest woman to sleep with is the one
he's already sleeping two rooms down the
hall so it happens homie
it happens and you know all these people
think it's self-evident that Aniston
doesn't have the right to earn a living
as a comedian because he's loved with a
babysitter look he's a bad dude there's
a lot to learn from it it's a lot for
him to learn it's a lot for us to learn
I think he's in terms of even public
relations he's handling this completely
wrong
I can disapprove as much as the rest of
y'all okay but um you know how is this
gonna work in a democratic society how
are we gonna tolerate people as deeply
flawed as a nishan so look it never
occurred to me that Twitter would be the
straw that broke the camel's back I
think everyone assumed that
communication is becoming more rapid and
elected people in office becoming more
transparent that this would only
galvanize and improve democracy as we
knew it but here we have a kind of
canary in a coal mine situation where
people and these people make a lot of
money it's a very well paid job being a
member what these people were elected
and went to Parliament and they say they
can't tolerate being criticized by the
average man on the street you know via
Twitter you know what is what does that
tell you and you know initials had his
whole sag he's brought a lot of this on
himself but understandably he's saying
sometimes joking and son is he's not
joking that he can't handle you know the
level of scrutiny and hate mail the
nasty comments on Twitter or on YouTube
on on Facebook or whatever media they're
wrong so I mean I know for example he's
not joking when he complains that his
wife later his husband his broker is
weeping he used to say oh you know Lanie
is crying made her feel bad now he says
kai is crying you made him feel bad
same person what their gender transition
so you know there's a sense in which
he's not joking in all right
here's the fundamental tragedy I think
is that the time is gonna come when
controversy becomes an end in itself
how did a OC Alexandria Ocasio Cortes
how did she become the most important
politician in America she's she's one of
them she's in the top ten now I mean she
just did the cut tougher pardon me she
appeared on the cover of Time magazine
you know she's become an enormously
influential and powerful person through
controversy right
what is controversy controversy is
unearned attention so we have people
quitting the house of problem and giving
up their role in the democratic process
because of controversy because it hurts
them right and you have people who are
accelerating their careers and becoming
prominent influential politicians
through controversy so controversy
starts to become a currency to be
exploited and maybe the darkest and most
miserable interpretation of what Anacin
has done in the latest chapter is that
he did this intentionally just for the
controversy have you considered that I
mean you know he didn't need to sleep
with the babysitter but he sure did need
to get tens of thousands of views and
you know again controversy is unearned
attention think of from his perspective
just how little effort it is now for him
to get 50,000 views 100,000 views on a
video that he recorded spontaneously
taking off his shirt and pouring liquids
over his head and it's this kind of
nonsense this is really low effort you
know drama mongering does anyone think
it's impossible that Aniston started off
this process by saying well there's a
fork in the road if he does sleep with
the babysitter this is going to lead to
controversy this can lead to promotion
this is going to lead to raising his
profile that's going to lead to money in
his pocket and if he doesn't then how is
he going to get ahead
talent hard work dedication so it's
scary I mean yes it's kind of
paradoxical to have an elected
politician who wants to avoid
controversy in the case of Heidi Allen
in England there's no way you can quit
your own political party and go work for
the opposite political party and it not
be controversial there's no way you can
start your own political party and have
it fail and then switch political
parties and not be controversial and
it's fundamentally incompatible with the
role of the pursuit of public interests
and debating the future of a democracy
to avoid controversy for the sake your
private life you're becoming a public
figure and you're becoming a public
figure on a mission on a crusade right
but then there's a new kind of rot
that's gonna set in to democracy where
politicians will do whatever is most
controversial do and say whatever is
most controversial to propel their own
career and you know I think it's
happening already to a greater extent
than people people realize the
right-wing politician who just got
banned from Twitter in the United States
there's a right-wing conservative
because she said another politician
should be hung from the neck should be
executed you think she doesn't know what
she's doing I mean just like an SEM like
you think he wasn't intentionally going
for this controversy yo she who is she
she's a nobody I mean there are so many
there are hundreds and hundreds of
people elected in the state Senate and
the federal Senate and so on doesn't it
start to become a competition for who
can say the most outrageous thing much
like Donald Trump himself to get that
get that moment of the spotlight get
that leverage get that influence the
digitization of our social lives puts
each and every one of us in a situation
where the long-term consequences of the
controversies we've been involved in go
on forever endlessly permanently and
they're instantly accessible by all in
the United States of America anyone with
a criminal record
how trivial has enormous difficulty
renting an apartment
anyone who in the past has missed
payments of their rent you know where
there's a record of you failing to pay
your rent on time has enormous
difficulty now signing up to rent a new
apartment lease a new apartment so and
so whether these kinds of consequences
and like I said about addition initiate
is guilty you may be guilty but we've
got to live together in a society the
guilty and the innocent alike there was
that young man covered in the press he
had made some racist comments as a joke
and it was obvious that it was a joke
when he was still in high school and
then his applications for university
were turned down not all universities
some rather than others you know this
wasn't politically correct enough to get
a university education again look who
are you educating and it's a real
question if you're a university don't
you have a mission to educate racists
and rednecks do you only accept students
who are already at a very high level of
enlightenment when the United States
people University it's 17 years old you
should be more interested in educating
the ignorant than the racist you should
whatever I'm you know get get motivated
again aren't you teaching something
worth learning do you want to read next
to learn and look I mean you know I'm
sincere about this I've asked people
this question when there was this
completely made up controversy above me
was completely fake
made up lies about my sex life but some
said to people look if this were true
like why are you doing this and what's
your motivation where it's going like
you know why just talk to me like if
this is true you know it was completely
impossible but like if I actually flew
to Scotland have a love affair with the
vegan lass she was a popular YouTube
then flew back you know kind of so what
but if I'd done this like this all this
made-up crap but okay so you know where
where do we go from here um I think an
inn is completely guilty but I'm still
really concerned about how we have a
society including social media including
all these ridiculous and how we have a
democracy that really kind of you know
includes and respects and that people
like an isiand
can participate in and it certainly is a
bizarre contrast to look at elected
members of parliament for whom it's
outrageous to think that they would
endure the slings and arrows of
criticism when they've done something as
obvious as being elected by the
Conservative Party then quitting
crossing the aisle as we say and joining
another political party but look maybe
we have to legislate on that too maybe
we all have to sit down and ask ok what
is the culture of public criticism you
know what up most of these things are
not written in any democracy you know it
comes up in court every so often you
know lawyers lose their temper and swear
in court and then they have to face
court proceedings punishing them for
using curse words according you know
it's night there's some vaguely written
word vaguely written law about you know
not disrespecting the judge or something
well what does that really mean
you know how is how is that applied hey
look all these questions were there
centuries ago I read this gruesome
gruesome description of a debate about
slavery in the American house of
Congress that ended with one of the two
members bleeding in a puddle of his own
blood on the floor beaten half to death
the the pro-slavery guy beat the other
guy half to death didn't even challenge
him to a duel just beat him right there
on the on the Congress floor you guys
been in this but you know in American
history you have a couple different
presidents who died in in duels or
killed each other in duels were you know
a single word of dishonor would result
in men and men drawing pistols but I
mean look there's there's got to be
justice and dignity and respect for all
of us and even a scumbag like initialise
human rights aren't just for people you
personally like they are civil rights
aren't just for people you sympathize
with how is it is Ian supposed to live
what look as bad as his conduct has been
what he actually did you know there were
allegations and insults being made
guess that are grossly exaggerated and
wildly untrue and sometimes the figment
of people's imagination what about
justice and dignity and civil rights for
him so we've reached the point where
it's being asked is Twitter to mean is
Twitter to rough-and-tumble for our
elected representatives in democracy
we've also got to ask is Twitter to mean
is Twitter to Reverend Temple for the
weakest among us for the strongest most
for the most notorious among us even for
an Sen himself
[Music]